README.md, before:

# 📚 Core Java Practice

> A collection of Core Java practice programs covering Java fundamentals, OOP, arrays, logic, and console-based applications.

![Java](https://img.shields.io/badge/Language-Java-red)
![Status](https://img.shields.io/badge/Status-Active-blue)

---

## 🚀 Overview

This repository contains multiple Java practice programs to strengthen your understanding of:

- Core Java fundamentals
- Object-Oriented Programming (OOP)
- Arrays and basic algorithms
- Console applications
- Logical and mathematical problem solving

It is designed for beginners and intermediate learners preparing for interviews, assignments, or self-learning projects.

---

## 📂 Project Structure
Core-Java-Practice/
├── src/
│ ├── AreaApplication/
│ ├── ArithmeticOp/
│ ├── ArrayOperations/
│ ├── EmployeeManagement/
│ ├── LogicApplication/
│ ├── MatrixApplication/
│ └── Welcome/
├── .gitignore
└── README.md

> Each folder inside `src/` is a Java package with its own programs.

---
## 🛠️ Getting Started

### Requirements

- Java JDK 8 or higher
- Eclipse, IntelliJ, VS Code, or any Java IDE

### Clone the Repository

```bash
git clone https://github.com/CoreJavaPulse/Core-Java-Practice.git
cd Core-Java-Practice

Commit message:

Revise README for improved project description
Updated README to enhance clarity and detail about the project structure and requirements.

README.md, after:

# 📚 Core Java Practice

> A collection of Core Java practice programs covering Java fundamentals, console applications, OOP concepts, array operations, logic challenges, and simple algorithms.

![Java](https://img.shields.io/badge/Language-Java-red)
![Status](https://img.shields.io/badge/Status-Active-blue)

---

## 🚀 Overview

This repository contains a variety of Java practice exercises and mini applications designed to strengthen your understanding of core Java concepts such as:

- Java basics (variables, operators, control statements)
- Object-Oriented Programming (OOP)
- Array manipulation and logic problems
- Simple console-based utilities

This is ideal for beginners and intermediate learners preparing for interviews, self-learning, or refreshing fundamentals.

---

## 📂 Project Structure

- **src/** – Source folder containing all Java packages
  - **AreaApplication/** – Programs for geometric calculations (area of shapes)
  - **ArithmeticOp/** – Arithmetic and basic math programs
  - **ArrayOperations/** – Array practice programs
  - **BasicPrograms/** – Simple Java fundamentals programs
  - **BasicArrayApplication/** – Array exercises bundled separately
  - **EmployeeManagement/** – Console programs related to employee logic
  - **LogicApplication/** – Conditional and logic-based programs
  - **MatrixApplication/** – Matrix operations and examples
  - **Welcome/** – Starter/welcome program examples
- **.gitignore** – Ignored files for Eclipse/Java
- **README.md** – Project documentation
- **LICENSE** – License file (optional)

> Each folder under `src/` is a Java **package** containing one or more programs, often with a `main()` method.

---

## 🛠️ Getting Started

### 📥 Clone the Repository

```bash
git clone https://github.com/CoreJavaPulse/Core-Java-Practice.git
cd Core-Java-Practice
